= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
changeaddr address
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
address, required, is a previously registered address
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =

The changeaddr command changes a registered e-mail address to another
e-mail address.  The personal password and all subscriptions and aliases
for the old address will be transferred to the new address
automatically.

The old address must appear on the command line.  The new address will
be taken from the "From:" header of the message containing the command.
The "default user" command can be used to choose the new address
explicitly, and will override the contents of the "From:" header.  For
example, the following two commands:

  default user Jane Johnson <newaddress@example.com>
  changeaddr oldaddress@example.com

will change "oldaddress@example.com" to "newaddress@example.com"

If the new address is already registered, the subscriptions and aliases
for the two addresses will be merged.  In this case, the personal
password for the new address will remain unchanged.  If both the old and
new address are subscribed to a particular mailing list, the
subscription of the new address will prevail.

Comments, such as the name of the subscriber, are respected in the new
address, but comments in the old address are ignored.  The following two
commands are equivalent:

  changeaddr joe@example.org
  changeaddr Joe Blow <joe@example.org>

The changeaddr command has no effect upon addresses in auxiliary lists.

Unless the changeaddr command is issued by a domain administrator, at
least one confirmation step will ordinarily be required, for the sake
of security.

  * If no password is supplied, a confirmation notice will be sent
    to the old e-mail address, and once that confirmation is accepted,
    a second confirmation notice will be sent to the new address.

  * If the personal password of the old address is used, a confirmation
    notice will only be sent to the new address.

  * Using the personal password of the new address, if that address
    is already registered, will cause an error.

If the old and new addresses are identical except for the comments, only
one confirmation will be required. This can be useful for changing the
comment fields in all subscriptions at once. For example, if a
subscriber had previously registered as "Joe <joe@example.org>" but
wanted his last name to be recorded, he could use the following two
commands:

  default user Joe Blow <joe@example.org>
  changeaddr joe@example.org

to change the comments in his address, for all of his subscriptions.


See Also:
   help admin_domain
   help auxiliary_list
   help alias       (which makes two addresses equivalent)
   help default     (for how to specify the new address)
   help password    (for information on personal passwords)
   help register    
   help subscribe   
   help unregister  
   help unsubscribe 

$INCLUDE-help/foot
