= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
rekey
rekey-noxform 
rekey-repair 
rekey-verify
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =

The rekey command serves two purposes.  The first purpose is to apply
transformations in the GLOBAL addr_xforms configuration setting to every
key in the registry and subscriber databases.  The second purpose is
to verify that the subscriber databases and the registry are consistent
with one another.

Majordomo makes use of two databases to keep a record of every address
that is subscribed to a mailing list.  In the central registry, the
personal password and a list of subscriptions for each address is
stored.  In the subscriber databases, the personal settings for each
subscription are stored.  Each entry in both kinds of database has a
"key" which is an e-mail address, called the "canonical address."  

The canonical address can be different from the actual e-mail address,
as determined by the address transformations in the GLOBAL addr_xforms
configuration setting.  For example, if the domain "example.net" is
mapped to "example.edu" in the addr_xforms setting, the address
"joe@example.net" will have a canonical address "joe@example.edu".

The plain "rekey" command should be used after the addr_xforms setting
has been changed, to modify keys in the registry and every subscriber
database.  The number of addresses found and changed in each database
will be reported.

The "rekey-noxform" command can be used to test the transformations in
the addr_xforms setting against the databases without making any
changes.  The number of addresses that would be changed by rekeying will
be reported.

In some circumstances, the registry and subscriber databases can become
inconsistent with one another.  This has happened in the past when a the
hard disk on which Majordomo stores its files ran out of storage space.
To recover from such a problem, the "rekey-verify" and "rekey-repair"
commands can be helpful.

The "rekey-verify" command checks the consistency of the databases
and reports any problems.  There are two problem cases:

  * The registry says an address is subscribed to a list, but there is
    no entry for that address in the list's subscriber database.

  * The subscriber database for a list says that a subscription exists,
    but the registry entry for that address is missing, or the list of
    subscriptions for that address in the registry does not include the
    list in question.

The "rekey-repair" command will repair any inconsistencies in the
databases.  Repairs always involve adding information.  In the first
problem case, a new entry is added to the subscriber database, using the
default personal settings for the mailing list.  Any customized settings
will be lost.  In the second problem case, the registry entry will be
changed or created.  If a new registry entry is created, a new personal
password will be chosen randomly for that address; any previous personal
password will be lost.

Be very careful with this command.  It is possible, with a bad choice of
address transformations, to severely damage your address database.  If
any canonical addresses are duplicated because of a transformation, the
duplicate entries will be discarded silently.  Aside from lost
duplicates, any changes can be undone by choosing the previous set of
transformations and rekeying the databases a second time.

Majordomo also maintains specialized databases for auxiliary subscriber
lists and for address aliases.  These databases will be rekeyed by
the plain "rekey" command, but they are not affected by any of the other
variants of the rekey command.  See "help auxiliary_list" and "help alias"
for more details.


See Also:
   help alias
   help admin_domain
   help auxiliary_list
   help configset_addr_xforms  (downcase or otherwise alter addresses)
   help password
   help register
   help set
   help subscribe
   help unalias
   help unregister
   help unsubscribe
   help who

$INCLUDE-help/foot
